.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EVENTCOUNTER 1 "March  5, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
eventcounter, eventgenerator, eventlogger, eventselect, eventsink,
eventsource, viewevents \- utility applications which can be used
together with other MUSIC-aware applications in multi-simulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eventcounter
.RB [ "\-tbmh " ]
.I "n_units prefix "
[
.I suffix
]
.br
.B eventgenerator
.RB [ "\-tbfmih " ]
.I "n_units"
.br
.B eventlogger
.RB [ "\-tlbmih " ]
.br
.B eventselect
.RB [ "\-th " ]
.I n_units units
.br
.B eventsink
.RB [ "\-tmih " ]
.I "n_units prefix "
[
.I suffix
]
.br
.B eventsource
.RB [ "\-tbmih " ]
.I "n_units prefix "
[
.I suffix
]
.br
.B viewevents
.RB [ "\-tshT " ]
.I "configfile"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly a set of MUSIC-aware utility
applications provided together with MUSIC library.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBeventcounter\fP receives spikes through a MUSIC input port, counts
all spikes for each index and writes the frequencies to a set of files
with names
.I "prefix rank suffix"
.PP
\fBeventgenerator\fP generates spikes from a Poisson distribution.
.PP
\fBeventlogger\fP logs spikes from a MUSIC port.
.PP
\fBeventselect\fP receives events from an input port of width
.I "n_units "
and sends events for the subset of id:s specified in the file
.I "units"
.PP
\fBeventsink\fP receives spikes through a MUSIC input port and
writes these to a set of files with names
.I "prefix rank suffix"
.PP
\fBeventsource\fP reads spikes from a set of files with names
.I "prefix rank suffix"
and propagates these spikes through a MUSIC output port.
.PP
\fBviewevents\fP reads spikes from a MUSIC input port and displays
them as a 3D graphical representation.
.SH OPTIONS
The utilities follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-b ticks, \-\-maxbuffered ticks
Specify maximal amount of data buffered.
.TP
.B \-f freq, \-\-frequency
Specify average frequency (default 10 Hz).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage information.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-indextype
Select global (default) or local indices. (Used for testing and
benchmarking purposes.)
.TP
.B \-l latency, \-\-acclatency latency
Specify acceptable data latency (s).
.TP
.B \-m type, \-\-imaptype type
Select linear (default) or roundrobin index map.
.TP
.B \-s scaling, \-\-scaletime scaling
Specify real time to simulated time scale factor (s).  If omitted, the
visualization runs at full speed.
.TP
.B \-t timestep, \-\-timestep timestep
Specify time between tick() calls (default 0.01 s).
.TP
.B \-T title, \-\-title title
Specify window title.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR music (1)
.\" .BR baz (1).
.\" .br
.\" The programs are documented fully by
.\" .IR "The Rise and Fall of a Fooish Bar" ,
.\" available via the Info system.
.SH AUTHOR
MUSIC was written by Mikael Djurfeldt and Örjan Ekeberg for INCF.
viewevents was written by Johannes Hjorth for INCF.
.PP
This manual page was written by Mikael Djurfeldt <mdj@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
