.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MUSIC 1 "March  5, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
music \- launch a multi-simulation using MUSIC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpirun
.RI [ mpirun-options ]
.B  music
.RI [ options ] " config"
.br
.B music
.RI [ options ] " config" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B music
utility.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBmusic\fP is used to launch a multi-simulation, i.e., an MPI job
partitioned between a set of parallel programs.  Such programs need to
be MUSIC-aware (see documentation for the MUSIC library).  MUSIC also
provides facilities for these programs to exchange data.
.PP
The second form of the command above (without \fBmpirun\fP) can be
used to print out an application rank map or version information.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B music
utility follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the MUSIC manual.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-map
Print application rank map.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR bar (1),
.\" .BR baz (1).
.\" .br
.\" The programs are documented fully by
.\" .IR "The Rise and Fall of a Fooish Bar" ,
.\" available via the Info system.
.SH AUTHOR
MUSIC was written by Mikael Djurfeldt and Örjan Ekeberg for INCF.
.PP
This manual page was written by Mikael Djurfeldt <mdj@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
